# Regional Economic Modeling

### Industry Employment Report (2009-2017):
The purpose of this report is to analyze changes in industry employment levels across four states: Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania. Specifically, the period under consideration is between (and including) years 2009 and 2017. The report will begin by describing the types of analyses used and the scale of focus. Then, it is going to cover some overall trends across the regions, before finally delving into specific industry trends in each region.

Six different statistics were calculated to illustrate employment trends under consideration. Location quotient (LQ) serves as indicator of how concentrated an industry in the region is, compared to the nation. In unison with percent of regional employment covered by a specific industry, LQ will indicate how vital said industry might be to the regional economy. Growth Rate (GR) serves as an indicator of industry-specific employment change over time. Birch Index (BI) is another growth measure focusing not only on relative, but absolute growth as well. National Share (NS) shows how much of total change in employment for an industry can be attributed to the growth of the U.S. economy. Industrial Mix (IM) shows how much of the same change can be attributed to economic performance of the relevant industry and Local Share (LS) shows how much of it can be attributed to regional influences. Finally, this report will observe industrial employment trends at the 3-digit NAICS level in order to more accurately pinpoint the sources of major changes.

###  Regional Growth Report (1998-2016):
This paper is going to analyze growth across four regions (A-D). This is going to be done with a Cobb-Douglas estimation of labor and capital impacts on output. The economic base is described, and multipliers are presented, along with a shift-share analysis, to pinpoint the industries largely responsible for regional growth. It starts by outlining important issues with the approach taken. The reader needs to be familiarized with these so as not to be misled by the results. Additionally, the paper presents the data and results on a per-region basis. Following this, it will cover the downsides of using these techniques and conclude with recommendations for future analyses.
